Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.
A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.
Cats have supersonic hearing
A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.
A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.
The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.
While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.
Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.
Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
 A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.
Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.
The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.
A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.
There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.
Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.
There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.
There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.
The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
