A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
Female felines are \superfecund
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.
The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.
A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.
A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).
Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.
A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.
A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.
A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
Female cats are polyestrous
Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
Cats have 3 eyelids.
The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.
If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.
A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.
The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.
Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million
Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.
The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.
Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.
Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.
The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.
The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one
